docs(res): comprehensive cross-chain HTLC documentation (#71)
nervosnetwork/fiber-docs: content/docs/res/cross-chain-htlc.mdx

---
title: Cross-Chain HTLC
description: Atomic cross-chain payments between CKB (Fiber) and Bitcoin (Lightning) networks — architecture, mechanics, and developer guide
date: 2026-06-10
---

import { Callout } from 'fumadocs-ui/components/callout';

<Callout type="info">
  This document describes the **Cross-Chain Hub (CCH)** feature in Fiber, which enables atomic swaps between CKB (via Fiber) and Bitcoin (via Lightning Network). If you want to integrate cross-chain payments or run a CCH node, you are in the right place.
</Callout>

## What Is CCH?

**CCH (Cross-Chain Hub)** is a service built into Fiber that bridges the CKB ecosystem and the Bitcoin Lightning Network using **Hash Time-Locked Contracts (HTLCs)**. It lets users atomically swap wrapped BTC on CKB for native BTC on Lightning, and vice versa — without trusting a third party with custody.

The key guarantee is **atomicity**: either both legs of the swap settle, or neither does. The CCH operator (commonly called *Ingrid* in the literature) cannot steal funds because the same payment hash / preimage locks both sides.

## Why It Matters

For developers building on Fiber, CCH unlocks several possibilities:

> - **Payment interoperability**: A Fiber user can pay any Lightning invoice, and a Lightning user can pay any Fiber invoice.

Reviewer: The word "any" might be too absolute? According to https://github.com/nervosnetwork/fiber/blob/v0.8.1/crates/fiber-lib/src/cch/actor.rs#L545-L575 & https://github.com/nervosnetwork/fiber/blob/v0.8.1/crates/fiber-lib/src/cch/actor.rs#L638-L718, use compatible might be better?

```

| Status | Meaning |
|--------|---------|
| `Pending` | Order created. Waiting for the incoming invoice to be paid / accepted. |
| `IncomingAccepted` | Incoming HTLC has been accepted (e.g., LND hold invoice is `Accepted`, or Fiber invoice is `Received`). Ready to send outgoing payment. |
| `OutgoingInFlight` | Outgoing payment is in flight. |
| `OutgoingSuccess` | Outgoing payment settled. Preimage obtained. Ready to settle incoming invoice. |
| `Success` | Both sides settled. Order complete. |
| `Failed` | Something went wrong (expired, payment failed, invalid invoice, etc.). |

State transitions are validated by `CchOrderStateMachine::allow_transition`. Invalid transitions are rejected and logged.

### Action Lifecycle

Actions are triggered by state changes:

1. **On order creation** (`on_starting`): `TrackIncomingInvoice` is scheduled.
2. **On `IncomingAccepted`** (`on_entering`): `SendOutgoingPayment` + `TrackOutgoingPayment` are scheduled.
3. **On `OutgoingInFlight`** (`on_entering`): `TrackOutgoingPayment` is scheduled (ensures we keep watching).
4. **On `OutgoingSuccess`** (`on_entering`): `SettleIncomingInvoice` is scheduled.

> 5. **On final states** (`Success` / `Failed`): No further actions. Scheduler queues a prune job (21 days later).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. **On final states** (`Success` / `Failed`): No further actions. Final orders are pruned after their scheduled order expiry time plus an additional 21-day retention period
```

2. **Alice calls `receive_btc`** with her `fiber_pay_req`.
3. **CCH validates**:
   - The Fiber invoice currency matches the configured network.
   - The Fiber invoice has an amount.
   - The Fiber invoice's `final_tlc_minimum_expiry_delta` is safe relative to BTC's final CLTV expiry.
   - The invoice's UDT type script matches the configured `wrapped_btc_type_script`.
   - The hash algorithm is `sha256` (required for LND compatibility).
4. **CCH computes the fee**: `fee = base_fee + amount * fee_rate / 1_000_000`.
5. **CCH creates a Lightning hold invoice** via LND for `(amount + fee) * 1000` millisats, locked with the same `payment_hash`.
6. **Bob pays the Lightning invoice** through the Lightning network.
7. **LND detects the incoming payment** and emits an `Accepted` event.
8. **CCH sends the outgoing Fiber payment** to Alice's invoice.
9. **Upon success**, CCH obtains the preimage from the Fiber payment.
10. **CCH settles the Lightning hold invoice** with the preimage.
11. **Order reaches `Success`**.

## Running a CCH Node

### Configuration

> CCH is enabled by adding a `[cch]` section to your Fiber config file (or via CLI flags / env vars):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To run CCH, add `cch` to the `services` list and configure the `cch` section in your Fiber `config.yml` (or provide the equivalent CLI flags / environment variables).
```
